you put into your buttered baking dish
six ounces of pudding or short grain
rice and to that you add one and a half
ounces of golden caster sugar and then
in my jug here I've got a pints of full
cream milk whole milk and next door I've
got a very old-fashioned ingredient the
contents of a large tin of evaporated
milk and I'm going to pour that milk
into that milk and I'm just going to
give it a little whisk with my whisk to
combine it and then that is going to be
poured over the rice it's always such a
lovely color this and now I'm just going
to give that a stir to stir all those
rice grains and sugar together into the
milk and then when you make a rice
pudding a real proper rice pudding one
of the things that is characteristic is
a skin and the skin has to be covered
with nutmeg to get that lovely sort of
nutmeggy flavor that we all knew in our
childhood so what I'm going to do now is
I'm going to actually put a whole nutmeg
on top of the rice pudding you might
think that's too much but it isn't
because you've got quite a lot of
contents in there and it really is the
nicest bit of the pudding the skin you
don't get it when you buy it
ready-made or from a tin
now you are going to have just a tiny
bit left that won't go in but we won't
worry about that one more ingredient
we've got an ounce of butter and what
I'm going to do with the butter is just
put little knobs of the butter all over
the surface and they all sort of first
of all fall in and then some of them
will float back to the top and I haven't
mentioned so far that this rice pudding
is going to serve four to six people now
that goes into a preheated oven gas mark
- or the equivalent and the secret of a
really good rice pudding is that it has
long slow cooking so that's going to go
into the oven and for the first hour you
stir it twice once after half an hour
and then once after another half an hour
and then you just leave it for the
further hour and it will be cooked so
we're going to pop that in the oven
and guess what we do have one that we
have made earlier which is going to come
out so put that one on the top and we'll
take this one out and here it is in all
its glory with that wonderful crunchy
caramelized skin on the top and now I'm
just going to serve a portion so you can
have a look and see what it looks like
and because there's always lots of
fights over the skin I'm going to show
you an extra little trick and that is
that if you take a knife and you slide
the knife around the edge you can get
extra skin like that from around the
edge and give everybody a piece of that
I think rice puddings really good served
with fruit I like it with baked apples
but I've prepared a recipe for you here
which is especially good and this is a
plum this is a plum recipe and the plums
have been cooked long and slow in
Marsala wine with a flavoring of vanilla
and sin